hey I'm Jesse Martin and I'm going to
show you how to lube and oil up a bait
casting reel so here I have abu garcia
ora real typical baitcasting reel you
can see it's a low-profile variety so
the first thing you're gonna want to do
with the real like this is get the side
plate off so for this particular model
you loosen the screw on the top I'm just
going to angle the camera down so you
can see a bit better so you know want to
loosen this screw here I've already
loosened it a little bit to make my life
a little easier here
and then that pops side plate loose
and you take this blew up so now you're
gonna wanna use your oil so what you
want to do here is oil up this pivot on
your spool this part moves a lot you
want to make sure it's well lubricated
after you've done that take the real
body again and if you look in here
you'll see there's a hole you also want
to boil up that hole that pivot goes
into that hole and you also want to make
sure the hole is well lubricated too
after you've done that I can feel free
to grease up the insides of here but
that's not really a necessary thing to
do there is some friction in there that
grease might help take it easy but
usually I just use grease for my gears
so take the pivot slide it back in and
now you can push the spool back any real
we're done with that it's a little
easier to do this when there's no line
on the spool otherwise your client
doesn't beat off to the side like mine
just did if you find that it's not
pushing in all the way you'll want to
loosen off your spool tension knob here
that will allow this to slide in a
little further and it'll make it easier
for you get you to get the side plating
back on but before you do that take your
oil again and oil up the inside of the
brakes here there's a lot of friction in
there I'm gonna make sure it's well
lubricated then you can put your side
plate back on you can figure it out
there we go now on to the gears
increasing so with a lot of reels you'll
have to take off this side plate to get
to the gears but with some like the ORA
you can actually just access them
through this compartment here so if you
look right in here
there's a little screw with
a little lid right there so if you
loosen off that screw you can actually
open that lid when you open up that lid
and look inside there you can see that
there the gears are right there so the
handle gear is there you want to put a
little dab of grease in there give it a
spin maybe give it another little dab of
grease and then spin it again after that
close a compartment there's one more
step I like to do and that's the worm
here so if you look down below here this
is actually hard to get to on this reel
because of the faceplate but you can
just reach through there right below
your line guide down on the bottom
you'll see a worm gear that crisscross
is back and forth just put a little dab
on that gear you don't want to use
grease on this gear if you put grease on
the gear here it's gonna gum it up and
it's going to slow down your reel use
oil and it'll speed it up after that
you're done ready to fish